### Footnotes
1: The term "microservice" was discussed at a workshop of software architects near Venice in May, 2011 to describe what the participants saw as a common architectural style that many of them had been recently exploring. In May 2012, the same group decided on "microservices" as the most appropriate name. James presented some of these ideas as a case study in March 2012 at 33rd Degree in Krakow in Microservices - Java, the Unix Way as did Fred George about the same time. Adrian Cockcroft at Netflix, describing this approach as "fine grained SOA" was pioneering the style at web scale as were many of the others mentioned in this article - Joe Walnes, Daniel Terhorst-North, Evan Botcher and Graham Tackley.

2: The term monolith has been in use by the Unix community for some time. It appears in The Art of Unix Programming to describe systems that get too big.

3: Many object-oriented designers, including ourselves, use the term service object in the Domain-Driven Design sense for an object that carries out a significant process that isn't tied to an entity. This is a different concept to how we're using "service" in this article. Sadly the term service has both meanings and we have to live with the polyseme.

4: We consider an application to be a social construction that binds together a code base, group of functionality, and body of funding.

5: We can't resist mentioning Jim Webber's statement that ESB stands for "Erroneous Spaghetti Box".

6: Netflix makes the link explicit - until recently referring to their architectural style as fine-grained SOA.

7: At extremes of scale, organisations often move to binary protocols - protobufs for example. Systems using these still exhibit the characteristic of smart endpoints, dumb pipes - and trade off transparency for scale. Most web properties and certainly the vast majority of enterprises don't need to make this tradeoff - transparency can be a big win.

8: "YAGNI" or "You Aren't Going To Need It" is an XP principle and exhortation to not add features until you know you need them.

9: It's a little disengenuous of us to claim that monoliths are single language - in order to build systems on todays web, you probably need to know JavaScript and XHTML, CSS, your server side language of choice, SQL and an ORM dialect. Hardly single language, but you know what we mean.

10: Adrian Cockcroft specifically mentions "developer self-service" and "Developers run what they wrote"(sic) in this excellent presentation delivered at Flowcon in November, 2013.

11: We are being a little disengenuous here. Obviously deploying more services, in more complex topologies is more difficult than deploying a single monolith. Fortunately, patterns reduce this complexity - investment in tooling is still a must though.

12: In fact, Daniel Terhorst-North refers to this style as Replaceable Component Architecture rather than microservices. Since this seems to talk to a subset of the characteristics we prefer the latter.

13: Kent Beck highlights this as one his design principles in Implementation Patterns.

14: And SOA is hardly the root of this history. I remember people saying "we've been doing this for years" when the SOA term appeared at the beginning of the century. One argument was that this style sees its roots as the way COBOL programs communicated via data files in the earliest days of enterprise computing. In another direction, one could argue that microservices are the same thing as the Erlang programming model, but applied to an enterprise application context.
